---
title: Reflection
---
### Lessons Learned

There are many things one can learn from trying to develop something from conception to creation. In that span of time, one might go through a series of emotions, feelings, and attitudes yet walk away with knowledge gained. There are several things we have walked away with, seeds of understanding that we have gathered along the way. We learned that failure is not an option. There were times when some of us just wanted to step away, but we could not let the team down. We found that this project takes a lot of time and understanding to be successful. And that success is not something working perfectly, success is something that works at all. If you can get movement, a light to toggle, something to reset; you have success, take pride in the little wins. One of the most important things we have learned is to step away from the project for a few minutes. This project can be vastly overwhelming and can be consuming, you need to let it marinate from time to time.

Also, we have learned that office hours will help you gain understanding when the work seems confusing. Teachers, TAs and other students are willing to help you if you ask for help. This experience also taught us to seek criticism, when any of us had a disabled board any opinion would suffice; anything to keep the project moving forward. To help facilitate our ideas, we learned to start having notes that you can look over and refer to, this helped get our ideas down and allow us to review and maybe implement them later.

Outside of the project, we learned that sleep is hugely important. There were times when some of us were not as rested, and the work was much more challenging to complete. With the lack of sleep and overwhelming assignments, stress was one feeling we were not lacking. To combat this we learned to step away and work one problem at a time. Lastly, choose your team wisely, you need to be able to work with everything your team members bring to the table: their knowledge, their personality, their quarks.

### Recommendations

The best recommendations we can give to future students of EGR314 are these, do not take this course and work full time, you will just overwhelm yourself between work and school. When the time comes to designing your PCBs, double the time you think it will take you to complete. You will want to factor in unforeseen mistakes that will not allow your board to be manufactured. As you select the parts you want for your build, take calipers and get a good sense of dimensions before you pick the part, small surface mounted parts are very difficult to work with. Once you're ready to order a board, order both a board from Peralta and JLC. Additionally, we recommend to order a Peralta board first, this board should be the bare minimum of your device. This action will allow you to see if your schematic works without any peripherals and allows you to change supporting components, like making resistors or capacitors slightly larger for easier handling, before ordering from JLC. When you order your parts, you want to have at least three to four of the “larger” items and five to seven of the “smaller” items; small parts get lost easily. Also when ordering your parts, read the datasheet, at least the pages that state how the device operates and how to set it up bare. This will be extremely helpful when choosing smaller components to support that device. When building your device we recommend to use every pin that your chip has. Pins burn out, traces burn out, pads do not always connect. You may not need every pin, but it is nice to have them should something happen and depending on the system you chose, the device you created is basically a dev board with an additional peripheral. Before everything above, we recommend to practice with the tools of this occupation. For example, practice your coding, they're plenty of coding websites that have puzzles to solve, practice soldering, you can always have a cleaner joint or use less flux, or practice with different debugging tools such as an oscilloscope. Lastly, hardware, we recommend you to invest in a computer with at least a terabyte of storage; applications needed for this course consume a lot of storage. Also when you are looking at a new computer ensure that the device meets system requirements for the applications that you will be using in this course.

### Version 2.0

The team found that the actuator's code would bog down the system. Data would come in, but the system would not handle correctly and send nothing out. This causes group communication to fail as nothing gets past the actuator code. The only way the actuator system worked was to comment out the motor code. We would fix this by first creating functioning motor and motor driver code. Then integrate the group messaging code and motor driver code together.

For our HMI system, we would improve functionality and appearance of the menu. We would add the sensor value to update on the first page of the menu as well as access other functions of the exhibit on the same page. We would also edit the menu's target RPM and motor's position menu. Instead of the target RPM menu being able to set the value in 10's, we would grant the user more manipulation by being able to index the RPM value by one. And for the motor's position menu, instead of pressing buttons that index between positions close, half-open, and open. We would instead code the buttons to open or close the actuator as its respected button is being pressed or held. Then when button is released the actuator stops the opening or closing.

Although the wifi system's and sensor system's code worked as originated. To provide exhibit a tad more functionality we would add code in the sensor system to read the voltage of the motor at the bottom gate. This voltage will then be sent to both the wifi and HMI system, displaying the value to the user. The value will be updating as often as the RPM value. Though the MQTT application worked just fine for the user to manipulate the exhibit, to improve user experience we would create our own website/web application. This application would do the same thing as the MQTT explorer, but provide a better usability while reducing user error.

Lastly, our API, after dumping half our messages we would add one to send messages that represent an error that a system might be experiencing. To complete this, each system would need to add try and except statements. When an error arises, it doesn't stop the code, but sends the error that it is experiencing to all systems. Increasing the entire systems debuggability, by allowing anyone viewing the messages to know what error is occurring and who is experiencing it.
